Leone v0.3 quality corpus

This document is a fixed input for next-token quality checks. It contains
systems prose, code, numerical definitions, structured records, multilingual
text, and context-boundary instructions. The evaluator tokenizes this file
with the subject model and scores an explicit prefix. The text has no random
fields and no time-dependent values.

Section 1. Runtime contracts

An inference runtime owns model weights, temporary activations, attention
state, and request state. A backend reports the operations that it supports.
The runtime calls the backend through one trait, so a scalar CPU path and a
CUDA path share a contract. A backend rejects a tensor shape that it cannot
represent. It reports the error before it allocates a partial session.

Decode consumes one token at a time after the prompt is resident. The decode
path keeps the active rows in a stable order. A scheduler may select rows for
one pass, but cancellation removes a row before the next pass. A completed
request releases its KV reservation and its session handle. The reservation
counts physical pages, while the session owns the logical sequence length.

Prefill consumes a prompt in one or more position blocks. A resumable prefill
stores the next input position and the state for every completed block. A
pause between blocks leaves no visible token. A resume uses the same block
boundary and reduction order as an uninterrupted run. A chunk smaller than
one token is invalid. A chunk larger than the configured context is invalid.

Section 2. Deterministic scheduling

The service has four requests with identifiers A, B, C, and D. Each request
has a deadline, a priority, a virtual runtime, and a KV page count. The
selection rule first removes cancelled requests. It then admits requests
whose reservation fits. Among admitted requests, the scheduler chooses the
earliest deadline inside the urgent interval. Outside that interval, it
chooses the smallest virtual runtime. A tie uses the request identifier in
ascending byte order. This rule gives a transcript that can be replayed from
the input records.

The scheduler does not treat an empty optional field as unlimited capacity.
Capacity is an integer in pages. A zero capacity is a valid configuration
that rejects every nonempty request. A missing value is a parse error. A
request that exceeds capacity receives a typed overload reason. The server
does not silently truncate a prompt or a completion.

For a concurrent run, a batch contains one row for each active request. The
batch limit bounds the number of rows in one decode pass. A smaller batch
limit increases the number of passes but does not change a row's history. A
larger limit cannot bypass the page reservation. The service emits one final
transcript hash after it closes every response stream.

Section 3. Kernel and numeric examples

The scalar reference computes a dot product in a fixed order. For values x[i]
and w[i], it starts with zero and applies s = s + x[i] * w[i] from i equal to
zero through n minus one. A CUDA kernel may use a different reduction only
when its error bound is part of the backend contract. A test records the
shape, the input hash, the reduction order, and the observed absolute error.

For a quality row, the oracle logits are a and the subject logits are b. Let
L(a) be log(sum(exp(a[i]))) evaluated after subtracting the largest finite
entry. The row distribution is P[i] = exp(a[i] - L(a)). The comparison uses
KL(P || Q) = sum(P[i] * ((a[i] - L(a)) - (b[i] - L(b)))). The sum covers the
full vocabulary. A NaN fails the row. A row with no finite value fails the
run. A finite negative result caused by roundoff is clamped to zero only
within the documented tolerance.

The quantized block decoder reads a scale, a minimum, and a fixed number of
codes. Each code selects one value from the format table. The scalar decoder
enumerates every code in a block. The CUDA decoder must match the scalar
value for each payload. A block with a partial payload returns a typed error.
The test includes an all-zero block, a block with the largest code, a block
with the smallest code, and a block with alternating codes.

Section 4. Code and data boundaries

The following pseudocode describes a bounded write. The comparison is made
before the write so an exact capacity remains valid.

    fn reserve(pages, capacity):
        if pages > capacity - live_pages:
            return Overloaded
        live_pages = live_pages + pages
        return Accepted

The following CUDA-like sequence names the synchronization points.

    load weights into shared memory
    synchronize the block
    multiply the activation tile by the weight tile
    reduce partial sums in a fixed lane order
    write one output row

The sequence does not state a performance claim. A timing receipt must record
the clock, power, driver, GPU model, input shape, warmup count, repetitions,
and tokens emitted. A value copied from a terminal without its receipt is not
evidence.

This JSON object is a protocol example. Its fields have fixed meanings.

{"request_id":"A-0007","model":"leone","temperature":0,"seed":0,"max_tokens":32,"stream":true}

The response contains a status code, a model name, a usage count, and a
receipt claim. A streamed response sends data chunks and then one terminal
chunk. A client must treat an incomplete stream as incomplete, even if it
received a prefix that decodes as valid UTF-8. A nonstream response measures
the first HTTP byte separately from the first generated token.

Section 5. Tokenization and language coverage

The same UTF-8 text can produce different token IDs in two model families.
The corpus hash binds the source text, and the token file hash binds the
tokenizer result. The oracle validates every ID against its vocabulary. The
subject validates the same IDs before it evaluates a row. A quality receipt
must name both model files and their SHA-256 digests.

English text tests punctuation, casing, and numbers. Norsk tekst tester
tegnene æ, ø og å. Deutsch prüft zusammengesetzte Wörter und Umlaute. Le
français vérifie l'apostrophe et les accents. 日本語の短い文は UTF-8 の境界を
検査する。العربية تختبر اتجاه النص داخل سجل ثابت. These sentences remain
literal input data. They do not define a translation requirement.

The corpus includes code identifiers such as `window_tokens`, `n_ubatch`,
`Q4_K_M`, `BF16`, `SM89`, and `sha256`. It includes paths such as
`receipts/raw/logits.f32` and flags such as `--prefill-chunk 128`. It includes
decimal values 0.000001, 0.125, 1.0, 3.141592653589793, and 1008.0. The
evaluator keeps these characters in the input file before tokenization.

Section 6. Context windows

The evaluation window is 512 tokens in the release recipe. Adjacent windows
share one token. The first window scores the next token after each of its
first 511 input positions. The next window begins at the shared token and
scores the next 511 positions. The final window may be shorter, but it must
contain at least two tokens. The output rows stay in global token order.

At a window boundary, the evaluator resets the KV state. A subject that
accidentally retains the prior window can appear accurate on short prompts
and fail after the first boundary. The corpus includes a marker sequence near
the reset sections. Marker zero names the initial state. Marker one names the
first reset. Marker two names the second reset. Marker three names the tail.
The marker words are ordinary input and have no control meaning.

Long context changes the balance between weight reads and KV reads. At depth
64, a short sequence is dominated by the model weights. At depth 512, the
attention path reads more KV entries. The receipt reports the selected window
and the KV storage type. A quality comparison does not infer long-context
quality from one short row. It scores rows after every reset boundary.

The next paragraph repeats a controlled pattern to make position and cache
handling visible. The pattern contains the words alpha, beta, gamma, delta,
epsilon, and zeta in a fixed order. Alpha beta gamma delta epsilon zeta. The
same six words occur again with different punctuation: alpha, beta; gamma:
delta. epsilon? zeta! The same six words occur with numbers: alpha 1, beta 2,
gamma 3, delta 5, epsilon 8, zeta 13. The sequence is data, not an answer.

Section 7. Quantized model comparisons

The BF16 or F16 model supplies the common oracle for a model family. The Q4
model is evaluated by llama.cpp and by Leone with the same token IDs, window,
and scored row count. The oracle engine is independent of the Leone CUDA
kernel. The comparison reports KL divergence in nats and top-one agreement.
It does not claim that the oracle is a framework implementation of BF16.

The llama.cpp execution record names the pinned commit, adapter source hash,
executable hash, model hash, backend, device, context window, batch size,
microbatch size, flash-attention setting, KV offload setting, and logits
encoding. The Leone record names its source commit, executable hash, model
hash, backend, window, KV dtype, and prefill path. A missing field makes the
comparison incomplete. A CPU oracle can certify the distributional reference
for the scored input. It cannot certify the numeric path of a concurrent
CUDA server without logits captured from that server path.

A Q4_K_M block stores multiple low-bit codes and shared scales. The codebook
does not contain the original BF16 values. The quality metric measures the
resulting output distribution, including errors that accumulate across
layers. It does not turn a measured KLD into a claim about every prompt,
every sampler, or every generated completion.

Section 8. Receipts and limits

A runtime receipt records throughput, latency, bytes per token, roofline
efficiency, hardware, clocks, power, and tokens emitted. A quality receipt
records the corpus hash, oracle model hash, oracle dtype, KLD definition, and
sample count. The two records link by UUID and digest. A receipt renderer
must reject a quality record whose subject model differs from the served
model.

The release evidence covers one candidate commit and the declared model
artifacts. It does not cover an unpinned llama.cpp checkout, a changed CUDA
driver, a changed corpus, an unrecorded tokenizer, or an edited logit file.
It does not turn a direct `eval` run into a service run. The service study
must record the request count, batch limit, plan hash, response hashes, and
the separate batch-limit-one control.

The final check is deliberately plain. Hash the corpus. Hash the tokens.
Hash both models. Hash both executables. Hash each logit artifact. Validate
the row count and byte size. Run the full-vocabulary KLD. Save the command
configuration beside the quality result. If any input changes, regenerate
the oracle and both subjects.
